---
layout: post
title:  "Defining Nerd"
excerpt: "nerd, n. — A person who cares for something both passionately and generously."
date:   2015-02-25 13:58:12
tags: general
---

If you ask five people to define what nerd culture is you will likely get at
least five definitions back, some derogatory, some complimentary, others
neutral. For some, the term evokes memories of not fitting in with the “cool
kids”; of being ostracised by many, but discovering they weren’t wholly alone;
of taking a term that was meant to disparage and choosing instead to wear it as
a badge of pride, marking off themselves as people who didn’t care that the
things they loved were considered lame. For many, nerd culture means a safe
haven in a difficult world where they can love the things they love without
worrying about the condemnation of outsiders.

Others may immediately think of instances of sexism in nerd dominated fields
(e.g. silicon valley) or of self-appointed gatekeepers proclaiming people to be
a “fake geeks” due to their area or depth of interest. They may recall those
who have threatened women with rape or murder for having the audacity to
question the status quo of the video game industry. For many, nerd culture is a
male-dominated, exclusionary group that prizes its own purity over the needs of
others.

The question of what nerd culture is and to what extent it is a good or a bad
thing has become more relevant of late as it has broken into the mainstream in
a huge way. Where wearing an Iron Man T-shirt might once have marked someone as
a member of a somewhat isolated minority subculture it now simply indicates you
are at least vaguely aware of one of the most profitable film franchises in
Hollywood. Our culture has shifted so much that many people who have never
heard of Magic the Gathering, watched anime, or painted a wargame mini are
gladly calling themselves nerds just because they happen to really enjoy
something like Doctor Who or the latest Marvel film.

And I think that’s great.

Nerd culture as walled garden, with gatekeepers verifying that each possible
member has the right interests and depth of knowledge, results in a couple
terrible outcomes: A) the thing you love stagnates and B) you end up acting
like a dick. Stagnation occurs because you keep out new ideas by raising the
barrier to entry too high for many reasonable people to cross it. And you end
up acting like a dick because telling someone they’re not a “real” nerd because
they don’t match your arbitrary measurement is an inherently ignorant and mean
thing to say.

I’d like to propose a definition of what it means to be a nerd that
encapsulates what I think the right path forward is:

> “nerd, n. — A person who cares for something both passionately and
> generously.”

We generally have the passion part of that down. What a lot of us have room to
work on is the “generously” bit. We should work to make nerd culture one which
welcomes any and all who wish to be a part of it and are willing to welcome
others in their turn.

My personal experience with nerd culture has primarily been through my friends
and family, who express their nerdiness by welcoming me into the things they’re
passionate about with open arms and by refraining from judging me for the areas
where our tastes diverge. I’ve recently started hosting semi-regular meetups
where people just talk about the things they love and why they love them and
the only rule is that no one can criticize or make fun of anyone. And it is
awesome. It’s incredibly liberating to be able to share your love of Star Wars
without the fear of someone popping up demanding to know who you think the
better pilot is, Tycho Celchu or Corran Horn.

So to my fellow nerds I say: let’s stop saying stupid things, like ever calling
anyone a “fake geek girl.” Let’s accept that the things we love are becoming
more popular than ever and embrace that as an opportunity to find more people
who care about the same things we do, even if they don’t obsess about obscure
details. Let’s use our recollection of a time when we were an unpopular
minority to empathize with people going through hardship. In short, let’s
combine our intelligence, creativity, and passion with kindness in all our
words and deeds. And when we do, we accomplish amazing things.

