---
layout: page
title: Birthday
excerpt: "It's my birthday today. And I'm sad."
date:   2016-01-05 23:28:00
tags: general
---

It's my birthday today. And I'm sad.

I thought about planning an outing, maybe grabbing drinks with folk or setting up a board game night. But I didn't. I've lived in SF for about 7 months and in that time I've made a few friends. But I don't know any of them as well as I knew my old friend group in Washington, which was both broad and deep. And a couple of the friends I know best down here aren't back in town yet from the holidays. I could still have planned something. I should have. But I didn't.

Because my birthday's on a Tuesday this year. Because I wasn't sure if anyone would come. And I'd rather sit at home feeling sorry for myself than deal with the rejection of trying to plan a party and failing.

To be completely clear: the general lousiness of my birthday this year is 100% my own fault. Everyone who I could possibly have expected to invest in making my birthday good did so, many above and beyond the call of duty. My parents wished me well multiple times and arranged to have a present delivered, making sure it arrived today. My sister really outdid herself and arranged for a present to be delivered not only on the day of my birthday but also on each of the two following days. Countless friends wished me enthusiastic birthday greetings on FB (okay I lied, FB actually makes it really easy to count: 51 at the time of writing), others called or texted.

And in some ways that made it worse.

Because it all reminded me of the group of wonderful people back in Washington that I have had the privilege to call friends. It reminded me I walked away from all that to make my name in the big city. A city where I don't have a living room for hosting Doctor Who watching parties. A city where I don't have a car, so I can't casually pop over to a friend's place unless they happen to live within half a mile of me. A city where my apartment sits beneath a stairwell, spanning the distance between two tiny alleys, where precious little sunlight ever reaches it.

It's easy to think there's something wrong with this city. That the people in it are too focused on success and money, making it hard to connect with people in meaningful ways. But I don't believe that's true. Or at least not entirely true. The truth is I'm contrasting the social circle I have after spending 7 months in a brand new place with the one I built up carefully over the course of about five years.

That old friend group of mine didn't just happen. There was certainly some serendipity involved, but I also invested a lot of time and effort into reaching out to people, hosting soirées, going to board game nights, DMing D&D campaigns. I haven't done as much of that over the last seven months. I've told myself I need to focus on work. That I needed to take time to figure out the city. Other nonsense. But it all really comes down to fear and laziness. Building up a social network involves talking to people I don't know very well which requires both energy from my precious introvert reserves and the courage to face the possibility that someone I want to add to my network doesn't want me in theirs.

Well I'm done with that now. I'm not going to be ruled by sloth or cowardice. I have a circle of friends down here. It's not very large and I don't know the people within it as well as I'd like, but it doesn't have to stay that way. I can be the one to see if people want to grab brunch or coffee or see a movie. I can squeeze a loveseat into the corner of my cozy home and invite people over to watch my favorite TV shows. And I can avail myself of the innumerable meetups in this crazy town to find other people out there searching for a group of people to call their own too.

The last year has been full of change. Change is hard, but it's how you grow. Time to grow.
